%% Quotes from Noam Chomsky.
%% For use by the Unix program 'fortune'.
%% See: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fortune_(Unix)
%
Any institution marked by domination and hierarchy must rise to the challenge of
justifying itself, and if it cannot meet the challenge, it should be dismantled.

             -- Noam Chomsky

%
The sign of a truly totalitarian culture is that important truths simply lack
cognitive meaning and are interpretable only at the level of 'Fuck You', so they
can then elicit a perfectly predictable torrent of abuse in response.

        -- Noam Chomsky, letter to Alexander Cockburn, 1 March 1990

%
A principle familiar to propagandists is that the doctrine to be instilled in
the target audience should not be articulated: that would only expose them to
reflection, inquiry, and, very likely, ridicule. The proper procedure is to
drill them home by constantly presupposing them, so that they become the very
condition for discourse.

        -- Noam Chomsky

%
If you have to meet [TV's] condition of concision, you can only either repeat
conventional platitudes or else sound like you are from Neptune. That is, if you
say anything that’s not conventional, it’s going to sound very strange.

… This structural requirement of concision that’s imposed by our media disallows
the possibility of explanation; in fact, that’s its propaganda function. It
means that you can repeat conventional platitudes, but you can’t say anything
out of the ordinary without sounding as if you’re from Neptune, a wacko, because
to explain what you meant – and people have a right to ask if it’s an
unconventional thought – would take a little bit of time.

        -- Noam Chomsky

%
The intellectual tradition is one of servility to power, and if I didn't betray
it I'd be ashamed of myself.

        -- Noam Chomsky

%
You never need an argument against the use of violence, you need an argument for it.

        -- Noam Chomsky

%
I was attracted to anarchism as a young teenager, as soon as I began to think
about the world beyond a pretty narrow range, and haven't seen much reason to
revise those early attitudes since. I think it only makes sense to seek out and
identify structures of authority, hierarchy, and domination in every aspect of
life, and to challenge them; unless a justification for them can be given, they
are illegitimate, and should be dismantled, to increase the scope of human
freedom. That includes political power, ownership and management, relations
among men and women, parents and children, our control over the fate of future
generations (the basic moral imperative behind the environmental movement, in my
view), and much else.

        -- Noam Chomsky

%
Changes and progress very rarely are gifts from above. They come out of
struggles from below.

        -- Noam Chomsky

%
The major media [...] are corporations 'selling' privileged audiences to other
businesses. It would hardly come as a surprise if the picture of the world they
present were to reflect the perspectives and interests of the sellers, the
buyers and the product.

        -- Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman, "Manufacturing Consent"

%
